Peter Baumgartner

Principal Researcher; Research Leader

Research Interests

Advancement of automated deduction, in particular first-order logic theorem proving and its applications. In particular, the Model Evolution calculus, its implementation (the Darwin system), and application to software verification and knowledge representation. 


NICTA projects

Involvement in leadership positions: Provably Correct Business Rules and Processes (current); Situation Awareness by Inference and Logic (past).

Collaborations

Recent collaborations include academic institutions and government organizations. In particular the University of Koblenz (Germany), the Max-Planck Institute for Computer Science (Germany), the University of Iowa (USA), Defence Science Technology Organization (Australia) and New South Wales Land and Property Information (Australia).


Career Summary

Principal researcher with NICTA since 2005 with positions as Program Leader, Research Group Manager, and Research Leader; Research scientist at the Max-Planck-Institut for Computer Science in Saarbrücken (Germany) from 2003 to 2005; Research scientist at the University of Koblenz (Germany), from 1990 to 2003; Honorary research associate at the University of New Brunswick (Canada) in 1998; Acting professorship at the University Giessen (Germany) in 2000 and 2001; Research scientist at the Technical University of Munich (Germany) from 1989 to 1990.

Qualifications

Habilitation for Computer Science at the University of Koblenz, Germany, 2002; Doctoral Degree in Computer Science, University of Koblenz, Germany, 1996; Diplom in Informatik, Technical University of Munich, Germany, 1988.

Publications

See here (http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~baumgart/publications/) for a full list.

Invited talks

- A First-Order Davis-Putnam-Loveland-Logemann Procedure, Distinguished paper track, IJCAI, 2011
- Logical Engineering with Instance-Based Methods, CADE, 2007.

Program Committees

I have served on numerous program committees of international conferences such
as CADE, IJCAR, LPAR, IJCAI, FroCos, TABLEAUX, JELIA, and AAAI, as well as
smaller workshop. 

See here (http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~baumgart/activities/) for a comprehensive list.

Organizational

Conference chair and program co-chair of the Innternational Joint Conference on Automated Reasoning (IJCAR, Syndey, Australia, 2008).

Conference steering committee memberships: Automated Deduction (CADE, 2003-2009); International Joint Conference on Automated Reasoning (IJCAR, 2006-2012), Automated Reasoning with Tableaux and Related Methods (TABLEAUX, 2009, and earlier).

President ("Sprecher") of the special interest group "Deduction Systems" of the German computer science society (2004-2008).

President of the steering committee of the international workshop "First-Order Theorem Proving" (2003-2006).

I (co-)organized numerous workshops with international conferences, and I co-organized a Dagstuhl seminar "Deduction" in 2005.


Teaching

In recent years, I have regularly lectured parts of a graduate level course "Overview of Logic and Computation", and I have regularly given a course on "Automated Reasoning in First-Order Logic" at the logic summer school, Canberra, Australia.

In the past, I also taught courses on Logics and Databases, Verification of Distributed Systems, Knowledge Representation, and introductory courses into computer science. I also supervised numerous students at the graduate level.

I gave tutorials at IJCAR, CADE and TABLEAUX conferences on various topics in automated reasoning.


Detailled web page : http://users.rsise.anu.edu.au/~baumgart/
